Maharishi International University aims to develop a comprehensive and efficient Course Registration System (CRS) that caters to the needs of students, registrar faculty, and administrative staff. The system should streamline the course registration process, improve communication regarding registration deadlines, and allow efficient management of course and student information.

When a student first enrolls at the university, he/she uses the CRS to create a plan of study that lists the courses he/she plans on taking to satisfy a particular degree program, and chooses a faculty advisor.

Once a plan of study has been established, then, during the registration period preceding each semester, students are able to view the schedule of classes online and choose whichever classes they wish to attend, indicating the preferred section (day of the week and time of day) if the class is offered by more than one professor.

The CRS will verify whether or not the student has satisfied the necessary prerequisites for each requested course by referring to the student's online transcript of courses completed and grades received (the student may also review his/her transcript online at any time).

Assuming that (a) the prerequisites for the requested course(s) are satisfied, (b) the course(s) meet(s) one of the student's plan of study requirements, and (c) there is room available in each of the class(es), the student is enrolled in the class(es).

When (a) and (b) are satisfied, but (c) is not, the student is placed on a first-come, first-served wait-list. If a class/section that he/she was previously waitlisted for becomes available (either because some other student has dropped the class or because the seating capacity for the class has been increased), the student is automatically enrolled in the waitlisted class, and an email message to that effect is sent to the student. It is the student’s responsibility to drop the class if it is no longer desired; otherwise, he/she will be billed for the course.

Students may drop a class up to the end of the first week of the semester in which the class is being taught.
